    1. General information
Distro-tools is a tool for automated building of Linux distributions based
on Debian and derivates.

The basic idea is to let the user describe the package set of the target
distribution via simple text config file and let him do the customizations by
specifying a directory with contents to be merged into stock distro.

    2. What is useful for
This tool aims to help the user create custom chroot environments, highly
personalized distributions, embedded distros and stuff like that. For example,
if you need a Linux distro for your ATM or industrial mill, probably you may
have to tailor it to your needs, like change the kernel, the bootsplash screen,
use the framebuffer instead of X or simply, let it autostart one single
application which interfaces with machine's user. 
Being the Debian and Ubuntu systems available on many platforms and since they
provide a very large and well maintained package repositories, the decision to
use them as basis is obvious.

    3. How it works
The only thing that the user needs to specify is the configuration file for the
distribution it intends to build. Config files are simple JSON-formatted text
files, where some parameters are specified and the tool, based on them, builds
the requested distro. For example, the user specifies the target architecture,
which may be arm, x86, x64 or anything else supported (and available) in the
package repository from which the distribution is retrieved and built. Also,
some other parameters must be specified, like the URL of the server which hosts
the repository, the release which will act as a foundation (for example, it can
be "squeeze" for latest stable Debian release at the moment of writing, or
"precise" for Ubuntu, or anything else available in the chosen repository), the
package categories, additional package mirrors (optional), the list of packages
to include in the distro etc. Since usually in production environments there's a
need to keep the development separated from release, the user can build from the
same config file two distributions, one for release and one for development
needs. Each can have (and often has) different packages installed, the
development version usually includes compilers, library headers and other tools,
and the release version contains only the minimal package set. Further
customization is done by creating two directories, release-addon and
devel-addon, for which the tool looks for when the basic distro is built. It
simply applies the contents of those directories to the root of each distro.
This way, you can include your own tools, programs, scripts, modified versions
of files. Since the tool keeps track of the "stock" version of the distro, you
can change at any time the contents of the addon directory and invoke the tool
again, and it will recreate the final distro without rebuilding everything from
scratch.

    4. Target distribution installation
The distribution which is produced by the tool does not contain any installation
facilities, it may even not include a bootloader or a kernel, if not explicitly
specified in package lists. This may be ok for development chroots, but if one
wants to do an interactive install of the distro instead of manual copying the
target directory to some partition, things become a little complex. What
distro-tools generates is the "image". Everything related to LiveCDs,
installable CDs or something like that is out of the scope of this tool. But you
can use this tool to generate both distros, the LiveCD one, which runs the
installer, and the "payload", which is the distro actually installed on disk by
the installer. How these things are done depends on what you need.
